hello everyone and welcome to another
blender made EC tutorial today I'll be
creating this procedural chain link
fence using geometry notes since this is
going to be a procedural fence that
means you can change the height of it
how many horizontal and vertical poles
there are you can also change the
thickness of the individual chains and
you can extrude it out to create
whatever shape and size that you
want there are not that many notes to
set up in this not tree as you can see
here so let's go ahead and jump straight
into it the first thing I'll do is of
course delete the default Cube then
we're going to add in a new object this
is going to be a beaser curve go into
edit mode and we need to make sure the
type is set over to Vector so press V
and select to Vector now there's going
to be no smoothing along the curves as
you can see here go into front view and
rotate it 90° so it's horizontal then we
need to extrude these two points out
select the top point and extrude it out
one grid unit to the left and then do
the same thing on the bottom except
we're going to extrude it out to the
right so now we have this shape make
sure these points are in the correct
spot then we're going to rotate this 45°
so it's at this angle next up we're
going to go into Edom mode and select
this point and we're going to convert it
back over to a curved point so this
corner actually has some smoothing we're
going to press V and switch it over to
automatic and then scale it down until
it's a little bit of a tighter point
something like
that we'll do the same thing up here
we'll select this point click on V and
then select automatic we'll scale it
down and drag this one up so they're
about the same size something like that
looks pretty good then at this point
we'll go back into edit mode select
everything and press shift d and drag it
over we're going to press crl M and
we're going to mirror it along the X
Direction so click on X and then drag it
over this way this is going to be the
shape of every single chain link in our
fence The Next Step that we need to do
is rotate these points cuz currently if
we were to add thickness to all of these
curves you're going to have some
clipping over here and then over here as
well to fix this we need to rotate them
I'm going to go into edit mode select
the point on the right and then select
this point as well we're going to hit R
then X and then we're going to go 90 but
you can see they're rotating together so
let's switch the pivot point over to
individual
Origins then we're going to rotate at
45° along the X direction right about
out there that looks pretty good we need
to do the exact opposite on the other
side so we will select this point and
then this point and then rotate them
along thex Direction 45° right about
there looks pretty good and as you can
see here these chains are actually
rotating around each other and that is
what we want the next step is we need to
make sure this is the correct size cuz
currently we can see here it's about 3 m
tall which is a very very tall chain
we're going to scale this down quite a
bit to actually get some reference we
can add in a new Cube if we take a look
at real chain links in real life you can
see the square is about 2 in or if
you're not from the US it's about 5.08
CM so let's add that into the dimensions
for the new cubes so we can see the size
we're going to go 5.08 and then type in
cm and
enter and we'll zoom in here we'll
rotate this so it's at a 45° angle as
you can see then we will scale this
object down and place it right inside
this Cube something like that is perfect
the next step is we need to rotate this
just like this so it's at a horizontal
angle then go into Edom mode we're going
to move everything so the origin point
is at the bottom of this curve so right
about there looks pretty good then a
very important step is you need to press
CR a and apply the scale and then make
sure you apply the rotation as well so
press crl a and apply the
rotation now that we've set up our
object we're going to add in one more
object this is going to be another
beaser curve we're going to go into edit
mode press V and then select Vector this
object here is going to control the
shape of our chain link fence so we can
drag it out so it's a little bit longer
just like that let's actually rename
these objects so we know what they are
we will call this fence line and then
the curve right here which is the chain
itself we're going to call this chain
now we have our object set up let's go
into the geometry nodes and start adding
in a bunch of nodes to do this we're
going to click and drag in the top right
to drag out a new window and then we're
going to switch it over to the geometry
node
workspace I'm going to add in a new
object as well let's just add in another
Cube and then we're going to give it a
new geometry nodes node tree get rid of
this CU we're not going to need it and
what we're going to do first is bring in
those two objects we can do this by
clicking and dragging the fence line
into here and then the chain as well
into here just like that another handy
tip is if you click on this button on
the top here it's going to prevent this
window from disappearing so now if we
select another object you can see the
not tree is still here which is very
useful all right so the first node that
we're going to add is a mesh primitive
and then select mesh line and we'll
place it right here what we're going to
do is we're going to take this and plug
it into the geometry and we can see here
is the effect the other thing that we're
going to do is add in instances so we'll
click on instances and then instances on
points then we're going to take the
fence line which is the curve on the
bottom and we're going to instance that
so if we plug that in right here we can
see this is the effect that we're
getting currently the height is way too
much we can control this height by
changing the offset if we were to drag
this down those points those 10 points
right here are going to become a lot
closer so the next step is we need to
figure out the height that we need to
place here the height is the exact
height of this chain object so for the
dimensions select the Z press contrl C2
copy and then paste it in right
here and as you can see it's now the
exact height of this chain link what we
can do now is instance that chain link
on every single one of these points to
do this we're going to select the
instances on points press shift d and
place it here then we're going to take
the chain plug it into the instances and
this is the effect that we get but as
you can see you're going to notice that
there's only two instances one on this
side and one on this side to fix that
we're going to resample this curve line
we're going to press shift a go over to
curve and then click on resample this is
going to allow us to add in more points
if we drag this up you can see more
points are being added but this isn't
really going to work CU we're going to
have to constantly change this count
what we can do instead is switch it over
to length so for every 0.1 M there's
going to be a new point point and you
probably guessed what we're going to do
we're going to select the chain link go
over to the X Dimension which is
0.78 crl C to copy and then paste it in
for this resample so for every 0.8 M
there's going to be a new point which
means another chain link and as you can
see they are all connected now which is
really cool at this point you can select
the curve line and drag it outwards and
it's going to automatically update in
real time one thing that we need to fix
though is this mesh Line This 0.36 m is
not the number that we want because if I
zoom in here you're going to see it's
exactly at the top of this other chain
we want it to be slightly below it so it
actually wraps
around so instead of doing this number
we're going to drag it down just
slightly let's go with a value of
067 and enter and as you can see here
they're a little bit below which is what
we want if you want to change the height
of this fence all you have to do is
bring up the count now that we have our
fence working properly let's add in some
thickness to all of the chains to do
this we're going to add in a curve and
then a curve to mesh we'll place it
right here over by the chain we have
here an option for the profile curve
which allows us to add in any object to
be the profile and the object we're
going to add is a curve and then a curve
Circle take this value and plug it into
the profile of the curve and as you can
see we now have some thickness the
radius we're going to drag down to 09
and enter and as you can see there that
is looking really
nice if we were to extrude this point
out to give it our fence a little more
shape you're going to notice these are
not rotated the correct way that's
because they're following the exact
rotation of the original chain object to
fix it to actually rotate it along this
curve what we need to do is add in a new
node we're going to go over to utilities
and then click on align uler to Vector
we're going to take the rotation plug it
into the rotation of the instances then
to actually take the information from
the curve to align it properly we're
going to add in a curve and then click
on curve
tangent this basically gives us the
information that we need to rotate it
the correct way we're going to plug it
into the vector and as you can see there
it automatically fixed it and now they
are rotated the correct way now before
we continue on creating this chain link
fence I wanted to take a moment and let
you know that if you wanted to take the
default Cube and blender and turn it
into a beautiful modern house scene you
can do that by checking out my class
over on skillshare in this class we go
from start to finish and learn the
entire process we go over the modeling
the texturing materials particle systems
all of that and then we end up with this
nice final scene you can check out this
class for free because skillshare is
actually sponsoring this video if for
some reason you don't know what
skillshare is by now it's an online
platform with thousands of
professionally taught classes on every
topic that you can think of there are
also a lot of blender classes as well
and nine of those are taught by yours
truly so here's the deal that I have for
you today the first 1,000 people to use
the link in the description will get a 1
month free trial of skillshare this
means you have access to everything on
their platform and there are no ads so
you can study and learn uninterrupted so
go ahead click the link in the
description and start learning something
new today feel free to check out my
classes on there as well and let me know
what you think of them and thanks again
to skillshare for sponsoring this video
now let's get back into the
tutorial the next step in this tutorial
is we're going to add in some cylinders
along every end point of this fence so
we're going to have one here one down
here and then one on the end this is
actually very easy to do what we'll do
is we will select the fence line This
mesh line and the instances on points
and shift d it and drag it upwards what
we can do next is take the geometry and
plug it into the points of the instances
so now we have three points one here one
here and one here and then on those
points we're going to instance the same
exact mesh a line as the one down here
so we have the exact height that we
need then to actually give this some
thickness what we'll do is we will
select the curve Circle and the curve to
mesh shift d that and drag it up then we
will take the instances and plug it in
right here to actually join these two
together we're going to add in a join
geometry node so click on the geometry
and select join then we'll plug this in
you might notice though you get this
error and the reason for that is because
we're actually trying to drag a mesh
into a curve socket that's not going to
work so we need to actually convert it
to do that go over to mesh and then
click on mesh to curve and place it here
once we do this you can see here is the
effect and it's actually working
properly we can control the radius by
changing this value right here and we're
going to set this down to a value of 05
and enter the other thing I'll do is
I'll click on fill caps so it actually
fills up the top right there as you can
see if you get the fence actually
peeking through the object what you can
do is select your chain link go into
edit mode and drag it along the right
until it is inside as you can see and
that looks a lot better the other issue
that we have is it's not tall enough
since the origin point of this chain
link is right there it's actually
stopping right at that point we can
actually fix this by adding over to this
count but if we were to drag this up
you're going to notice this object is
not going up as well so what we need to
do instead is over in the group input
we're going to take this and plug it
into the count then we're going to take
the count and plug it into this count so
as we change if we select our object if
we change the count over in this
modifier it's going to move it upwards
as you can see but what we'll do here is
We'll add in a utilities and a math node
we're going to set it to add and then
the value down here we're going to go up
to two so it's going to take the 21 as
you can see here and then add two so
it's actually 23 and as you can see it's
now taller than
it the next thing that we will do is
we're going to add in some horizontal
poles going along the top and the bottom
and however many that you want in the
middle this is actually pretty easy to
do as well what we'll do is we'll take
the mesh line we're going to press
contrl shift d D and drag it upwards
control shift d allows you to keep the
connection of the count as you can see
the next thing that we need to do is
actually take the fence line This object
here we're going to press shift d and
drag it up as well so how this is going
to work is we're going to take the mesh
line which is the height and we're going
to add the fence line on that end point
at the top here to do this we need to
reverse this mesh line so it starts at
the top and goes downwards so when we
set the count of the horizontal pulse to
one it's always going to be one right
here rather than one down here we're
going to go over to mesh and then click
on mesh to curve and then we're going to
reverse this by going over to curve and
then clicking on reverse curve plug that
in here so now it's actually starting up
at the top at this point we can instance
the fence line at the top here so we'll
go over to instances on points we'll
take the curve plug it in here and then
the geometry we'll plug it into the
instant all I didn't plug it in there we
go like that but we also want a way to
actually add in more horizontal poles if
we wanted to and to do that we're going
to add in a curve and then a resample
curve and place it here and that's
basically all we really need to do let's
take a look at this by dragging the
instances into the group
output so if we were to come over to the
resample if we drag this down to a value
of one there's going to be one curve
along the top as you can see if we drag
it to two there's going to be one at the
bottom and then three one in the middle
and then it's just going to keep adding
as we can see and we have full control
over how many poles are in the middle
let's give this some thickness by going
over to a curve to mesh which is right
here curve to mesh we'll place it there
then we will add in another curve Circle
and use that for the thickness so add in
a curve Circle and plug it in the radius
is way too high so let's drag this down
to a value
of uh let's go with 25 just to see how
that looks that looks pretty good we
might need to play around with it let's
actually plug it into the join geometry
and then plug this into the group output
so we can see what it looks like if I
zoom in here you're going to notice that
we have an issue the horizontal pole is
inside all of these chain links an easy
way to fix that to push it outwards is
to add in a transform node if we go over
to geometry and then add in a transform
node we'll place it right here and then
over in the translate if we drag this
down to a value of .025
five and enter it's going to move it out
just slightly you might be thinking that
the transform node is actually just
going to push the whole thing along the
X Direction so if we were to extrude
this outwards it's not going to work but
as you can see it's still working even
if we extrude it out this way the
horizontal pole is on the outside the
reason that is happening is because we
placed the transform node before this
profile curve if we were to place this
on this side that's not going to work
because it's just going to move it along
the X direction as you can see here but
since we placed it here before the
profile curve it's actually working
properly I'm not really sure how it
works that way but that's just how it is
and it's a solution for this problem and
there we go that is basically it now if
we drag this up we can add in more
horizontal poles if we wanted to and you
have full control over how it works what
I'll do here is I will take another
output and plug it into the count of the
resample then we can press n and go over
to the bottom one this is the horizontal
poles so we will go horizontal
poles and then for this one right here
this is the height so we will call this
height and there we go if we then select
our node here we have those organized
perfectly to create this we're going to
come down here to the bottom we will
select the fence line shift d it and
place it over here just to make sure
everything is separated and organized
and let's take a look at this by
plugging it into the geometry so we can
see here here is what it looks like what
we're going to do now is resample this
and add in points along this line we're
going to add in a curve and then a
resample we'll place it right here then
we're going to change it over to count
and so for every 0.1 M there's going to
be a horizontal pole next up we will
take this object here we're going to
press control shift d and then move it
down here so it actually keeps the count
and this is going to to be what's
instance we're going to add in an
instances on points and then we'll take
the mesh line plug that in and we can
see here here's all of our horizontal
lines and we can change the count if you
wanted to so if you want less you can
drive that outwards then to actually
give this some thickness we need to add
in the all of those nodes that we added
previously we first need to convert it
over to a curve so we'll go mesh to
curve and then we will go curve to mesh
so we can actually fill in a profile and
then we will add in a circle right here
curve Primitives curve Circle and then
plug it in right there we'll click on
fill caps and then drag the radius
down if we then plug this into the rest
of the nodes we will take the mesh plug
it into the join geometry and then this
into the group input here is the effect
that we get we'll come back down here
and set the radius let's go with a value
of
0.25 the same as the uh horizontal poles
you might notice though we have the same
problem it's in the middle rather than
on the edge now we're going to use a
similar method to what we used up here
with the horizontal poles but it's going
to be a little bit different we're going
to be placing it before the instances so
what I'll do is I'll just grab this curv
circle and this curve to mesh shift d it
and place it over here we're going to
take the resample plug it into the curve
and then the mesh into the points and we
can see here we're instancing we're
instancing ing a lot of points but
rather than a thick radius we're going
to set the radius down to zero then all
we have to do is use that same transform
node so we'll come up to the top here
the one with thex value we're going to
shift d it drag it all the way down here
and place it here once we do that it's
going to move them backwards now I'm not
sure if there's a way to fix that if
there is a better way to move them
backwards rather than using the profile
curve and then transforming that if you
know a better method let me know in the
comments down below but as you can see
if we go along the back here it's still
working and all of those are along the
edges rather than the middle then what
we can do is we can take another output
and plug it into the length so here
we're going to take the output plug it
into the resample length so if we drag
this down it's going to add in more if
we drag it up it's going to add in less
and that is basically it if you wanted
to add in a material all you have to do
is click on the material and then click
on set material and then place a
material that you want in this case we
can go over to the material tab we can
call this material metal and then give
it a metallic look and then the base
color we can give it a black and then
the roughness just drag it down you
could go into the Shader editor and add
in some other stuff like some grung some
scratches and whatnot but I'll leave
that up to you guys then over in the set
material node just select the metal
material if we go into rendered view we
can see it is working perfectly but
there you go that is how you create a
chain link fence using geometry nodes
there is one problem though and I'll
show you that real quick is if we drag
the length up a little bit you're going
to notice that some of the horizontal
Poles get really close to the edge of
these poles and I'm not really sure how
to fix that if there's a way to average
these points just the end points with
the middle and then distribute those
inside that I don't really know how to
do that but if you guys know let me know
in the comments down below but that is
it from here you can play around with
the shape you can grab the fence a line
a curve extrude it outwards extrude it
all around and create the shape that you
want but that is it guys thank you very
much for watching this tutorial I know
it was a long one but hopefully you
created something cool and if you found
it useful and you use it in your own
projects let me know in the comments or
if you created something send it to me
on Instagram at blender Made Easy thanks
again to skillshare for sponsoring this
video and I will see you all in the next
one